Do you feel more powerful now?
Is your Git knowledge growing, hopefully?
Well, now we're gonna talk
about remote Git, right?
Often we need changes that have been
created by our fellow frenemies.
Frenemies, of course, is because they
make code and it hurts your feelings or
hurts production's feelings.
But how do we get their
changes into our repo?
How do we push our changes to their repo?
Here's one thing that kind of,
I guess, will surprise most people,
is that it doesn't have to be remote.
It doesn't have to be on GitHub.
I know that might be strange,
because often when people think of Git,
they think of GitHub.
They don't actually think
of Git as its own thing,
and then GitHub as a means to store Git.
They think of Github as Git.
So you may have never really
used Git as a remote.
You just really probably
have never done this.
Why would you have the same thing twice?
A remote is just simply a copy of
the repo somewhere else, that's it.
So I want you to create a new folder
wherever you create folders, and
let's call it remote-git.
And I want you to initialize
it with git init.
So I'll jump in here and
go over to my personal directory.
I'll make the remote-git and
then I'll go into remote-git, there we go.
And I'll go git init, there we go,
it's its own repo right now.
Remember, this is distributed
version control, okay?
The files can be on other
people's computers, too.
And so, let's add a remote to hello-git,
so, adding a remote goes git remote add,
the name of the remote, and
then some sort of URI of some sort.
It can be an SSH item,
it can be just a path on your computer.
So let's add hello-git as the remote.
By the way, you should name it origin.
Typically, good practice is, the authority
repo is typically named origin.
So I'll do it right now,
I'll go git remote add origin,
and I'll just literally go ../hello-git.
I can check it out with git remote -v,
there we go.
You can see that the other repo
is just simply a relative file.
So, hopefully, everyone did that.
git remote -v will just verbosely
list out all of your remotes.
You can also just do git remote, but
I don't find that very useful, right?
I didn't do anything there.
And so if you do the -v,
it'll also give you the path.
So if you have GitHub, you'll see
the GitHub address when you do a -v.
Gitisms, typically this is how I
set up the naming for my repos.
Is if I have only a singular authoritative
repo, meaning that there is mine plus
the one I'm pushing up to, say, on GitHub,
then I'll call that one origin.
If I have a fork of the authoritative
repos, so this is typical
when you're at like a job, you have your
main one, and then you have your fork.
I typically call my fork origin, and
the authoritative one, the true one,
the one true repo,
I call that one upstream.
And you'll see that a lot,
people will call it upstream.
Sometimes instead of using origin,
I use me, cuz it's just,
I don't know, it's kinda fun.
git push me,
I just think it's stupid and fun.
So there's me, so that's kind of like
my general naming convention is to use
origin for the authoritative one,
unless if it's a personal fork, and
then do upstream for
the authoritative one.
All right, you'll notice our default
branch remained, it's trunk again, right?
We didn't set the option again, we didn't
do anything, it just keeps on remaining.
So now trunk was yet again, even
though this is a very different trunk,
this trunk right here is
from the default naming.
Now we need to merge the changes from
hello-git into our new repo, remote-Git.
So we're gonna do that, but
first we need to fetch.
We need to fetch because we want to be
able to get all that object information
from hello-git.
So if we go here and I go find .git,
you'll notice that it's just, again,
this pristine empty one.
Whereas if I do that in hello-git,
find .git, well,
it has a lot of stuff in there, right?
So I want all of that in remote-git.
So to do that,
you need to be able to execute git fetch.
git fetch will fetch
your remote's changes,
and it'll put it inside
the git state management.
I bet you could even find
where it stores things.
So I'll go like this, git fetch.
And you'll see, look at that, I got bar,
I got foo, I got foo-rebase-trunk, trunk,
trunk-merge-foo.
We got all of those branches
when I did that fetch.
Okay, cool, so now I'm up to date, right?
>> No.
>> No, great job, all right.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I love this, this is fantastic.
All right, so let's use git log and
verify that the remote trunk has been
correctly merged into our git state.
So I'll go like this, git log, our branch
doesn't even have any commits yet.
So our trunk is still
diverging from hello-git.
And the reason why is we've
only fetched the changes,
we haven't merged the changes into ours,
we haven't updated anything.
That's why often when you pull,
you'll see update with fast forward
if you have your main line.
Cuz you don't make changes to your main
line cuz you're all great engineers,
I can tell right away.
No one's doing that, right?
No one's doing merge, right?
Okay, so anyways,
right now we haven't updated anything.
Okay, so that means we need to do
something, but by the way, remember,
you can always do a git log.
So I can go git log,
remote name, which is origin,
and then do any branch name, right?
Because we fetched everything in, so we
can actually see the log of other remotes.
So I can go origin trunk, and there we go.
Definitely my best work
at the end of this.
It's fantastic, X, Y, E, D, A, awesome.
If you did one line,
I actually pasted one line in there.
I pasted the wrong thing in there,
I actually executed --oneline,
that's what it should look like.
All right, awesome.
You can validate this is true by,
when you look right here,
you'll notice that trunk is 9b6e43.
I can go to hello-git and do git log -1,
9b6e, same commit SHA, right?
It now exists on two computers,
or in two repos.
So there we go, okay,
we are now kind of in line.
If you wish to see what branches came down
with git fetch you can do git branch -a.
So if I go back to remote-git and I go
git branch -a, you'll see all branches.
And so the ones that start with remotes,
those are all the remote branches,
then you'll have any of your local ones.
Right now we have nothing,
we just have the default empty
one that has no commits to it.
So we have no branches, effectively,
and just a bunch from the remote.
All right, so
let's update trunk with origin/trunk.
And then let's use git log to see
those commits have been merged.
So what do we do here?
>> origin/trunk?
>> We can git pull origin/trunk, true.
We also have all those changes.
So we can just git merge origin,
the remote, trunk.
Now that I've merged those changes
from my internals which I just
got done fetching from another repo,
I can use git log --oneline.
And look at that, my trunk now points
to the same spot that this trunk does